{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green26\blue46;\red99\green102\blue241;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green100\blue0;\red200\green0\blue0;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\pard\qc\sb400\sa200
{\f0\fs48\b\cf2 Multi-Agent DevOps Incident Analysis Suite\par}
{\f0\fs28\cf4 Complete Conversation Log\par}
{\f0\fs24\cf4 AI Engineering Accelerator \endash  Cohort 7\par}
{\f0\fs22\cf4 Wayne Johnston | June 2026\par}
{\f0\fs20\cf4 Built with Claude Opus 4.6\par}
\pard\sa200
\par
{\f0\fs20\cf4 \ql Note: This conversation spanned multiple sessions. The first portion (Phases 1\endash 11) was summarized due to context compaction. The second portion (testing, slides, restructuring, deployment debugging) is captured in detail.\par}
\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brsp20\sa200
\par
\pard\sa100
{\f0\fs32\b\cf2 PART 1: DESIGN, BUILD & DEPLOYMENT (Summarized)\par}
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp20\sa200
\par

\pard\sa100
{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 1. Initial Request\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "Please help with the design 1. Multi-Agent DevOps Incident Analysis Suite..." \endash  Detailed spec requesting a multi-agent system with 6 agents for analyzing infrastructure logs, classifying incidents, recommending remediations, generating runbooks, and pushing notifications to Slack/JIRA.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Acknowledged the requirements and began designing the architecture. Identified key design decisions: AI-driven log parsing (no hardcoded regex), LangGraph StateGraph orchestration, multi-channel Slack routing, mock-first integrations.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 2. Implementation Planning\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "please create an implementation plan for this. There will be logs for routers.log, switches.log, security.log, and more. AI will have to determine what the fields means. Is there anything as part of the design that should be clarified before the implementation plan?"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created a comprehensive 7-phase implementation plan covering: State Schema + Synthetic Logs, Log Reader/Classifier Agent, Remediation + Cookbook Agents, Integration Tools, LangGraph Orchestrator, Streamlit UI, and Requirements + Verification. Plan saved to /Users/waynejohnston/.claude/plans/humble-nibbling-perlis.md\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 3. Design Clarifications\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "Upload + watched directory. I need to deploy this in the future and would like to use flask but I am open to ideas? Demo for JIRA live for Slack 1. all patterns, 2. Do I have to use streamlit? 3. Sounds good. 4. API keys in .env. 5. Lets mock slack too. need a Slack Channel for ops-incidents, secops-incidents, network-incidents"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Designed framework-agnostic architecture (core has zero Streamlit imports) to enable future Flask migration. Added directory watcher using watchdog. Configured both Slack and JIRA in mock mode with separate toggles. Set up multi-channel Slack routing: #ops-incidents, #secops-incidents, #network-incidents.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 4. Phase 1: State Schema + Synthetic Logs\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  \b state.py\b0 : IncidentState TypedDict with 10 fields (raw_logs, inferred_schemas, parsed_events, classified_events, remediations, cookbook, notifications_sent, jira_tickets, status, errors)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  \b log_samples/\b0 : 4 synthetic log files \endash  routers.log (Cisco IOS syslog), switches.log (tabular), security.log (CEF), servers.log (RFC5424)\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 5. Phase 2: Log Reader/Classifier Agent\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Implemented agents.py with AI-driven 3-stage pipeline:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Stage 1: Schema inference from first 15 lines of each log file\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Stage 2: Full parse in 100-line chunks using inferred schema\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Stage 3: Severity + category classification\par}
{\f0\fs22 Used ChatOpenAI via OpenRouter (GPT-4o) with response_format=json_object for reliable parsing.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 6. Phase 3: Remediation + Cookbook Agents\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Added remediation_node (filters warning/critical, generates vendor-specific CLI commands) and cookbook_node (synthesizes Markdown runbook with checklists and verification steps).\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 7. Phase 4: Integration Tools\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created tools.py with:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  SLACK_MOCK and JIRA_MOCK as separate toggles (both default True)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  CHANNEL_ROUTING dict mapping categories to Slack channels\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  route_to_channel() function\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  send_slack_message and create_jira_ticket as @tool decorated functions\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 8. Phase 5: LangGraph Orchestrator\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created graph.py with StateGraph wiring:\par}
{\f1\fs20 START -> log_reader -> remediation -> route_by_severity\par}
{\f1\fs20   has_critical -> notification -> jira -> cookbook -> END\par}
{\f1\fs20   no_critical  -> cookbook -> END\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 9. Phase 6: Streamlit UI\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created app.py with sidebar configuration (API keys, mock toggles, directory watcher), multi-file upload, sample log loading, 6 result tabs (Events, Remediations, Runbook, Slack, JIRA, Inferred Schemas).\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 10. Bug Fixes During Development\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "analyze incidents does nothing."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Fixed Streamlit session state issue \endash  button clicks cause reruns where the button state is lost. Stored raw_logs in st.session_state to persist across reruns.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "I can now see that it is doing something on analyze incidents, however, nothing additional is given."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Added st.rerun() after analysis completes to force result rendering, plus try/except with traceback display on errors.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 11. Security Fix\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "It appears that my API key is visible if you toggle the eye. This openrouter key when deployed needs to user wipe out the secret and get user input. The secret should be used if '/API' is the endpoint."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Fixed by setting all credential value="" with placeholder text, adding _get_secret() for API-only use, and blocking Analyze without key.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 12. GitHub Repository Setup\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "please move to its own repository ie. ../devops-incident-suite"\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created GitHub repo wjohnston99/devops-incident-suite using GitHub REST API (gh CLI had token scope issues). Pushed all code to main branch.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 13. Streamlit Cloud Deployment\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "2 on streamlit cloud"\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Provided deployment steps for Streamlit Cloud. Configured for src/app.py as main file.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 14. PDF Project Report\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "please put out who conversation into a pdf file on the design, build and deployment of this project."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created generate_report.py using ReportLab. Generated 15-page PDF report with cover page, table of contents, all sections, and embedded architecture diagram PNG.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "The diagram you drew is not in the report. Please include"\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Used rsvg-convert to convert SVG to PNG, then embedded the PNG in the PDF via ReportLab's Image class.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 15. Unit Testing\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "create unit test using pytest. Try and get close to 100% code coverage, if not please explain."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created 5 test modules with 80 tests. Hit module-level ChatOpenAI instantiation issue during test collection \endash  refactored to lazy _LazyLLM class pattern to decouple tests from API credentials.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "Please make mocks for the ones that are not 100%. This will enable me to see when code coverage starts to slide."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Added additional mocks. Fixed assertion error (assert_called_once_with("msg1") should be assert_called_once_with(["msg1"]) because _LazyLLM.invoke passes *args keeping the list intact).\par}
\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brsp20\sa200
\par
\pard\sa100
{\f0\fs32\b\cf2 PART 2: TESTING, SLIDES, RESTRUCTURING & DEPLOYMENT (Detailed)\par}
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp20\sa200
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 16. Final Test Run Verification\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Ran the full test suite to confirm the assertion fix:\par}
{\f1\fs18 python -m pytest test_state.py test_tools.py test_watcher.py test_agents.py test_graph.py -v --tb=short --cov=state --cov=tools --cov=watcher --cov=agents --cov=graph --cov-report=term-missing\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Result: \b 81 passed, 0 failed. 99% coverage.\b0\par}
{\f0\fs22 Coverage breakdown:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  state.py: 12 stmts, 0 miss, 100%\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  tools.py: 36 stmts, 0 miss, 100%\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  watcher.py: 64 stmts, 0 miss, 100%\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  graph.py: 21 stmts, 0 miss, 100%\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  agents.py: 143 stmts, 2 miss, 99% (lines 13, 17 \endash  import-time .env path checks)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  TOTAL: 276 stmts, 2 miss, 99%\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 17. Code Coverage Display Request\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "sorry I meant slide vs the word slie in the previous command. Please show what the current code coverage and what is the command to get run this report myself?"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Displayed the coverage table and provided commands for terminal coverage report and HTML coverage report generation.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 18. Slide Presentation Creation\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "Can you create a slide presentation for this project. Include the pytest code coverage in a unit test section. Should be a regeneration of the DevOps_Incident_Suite_Project_Report.pdf and include all diagrams."\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Installed python-pptx. Created generate_slides.py producing a 16-slide PowerPoint deck:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 1: Cover (title, name, cohort)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 2: Agenda\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 3: Executive Summary\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 4: Architecture Diagram (embedded PNG)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 5: Pipeline Flow (conditional routing)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 6: Technology Stack\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 7: Agent Deep Dive (all 5 agents)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 8: Slack Channel Routing\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 9: Shared State Schema\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 10: Streamlit UI & Security\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 11: Unit Testing & Code Coverage (81 tests, 99%, full coverage table)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 12: Test Suite Breakdown (per-module test counts + descriptions)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 13: Deployment\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 14: Project Structure\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 15: Future Enhancements\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Slide 16: Thank You\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Saved as DevOps_Incident_Suite_Presentation.pptx\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 19. README.md Creation\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "plese generate the standard README.MD file include commands for verifying pytests and code coverage"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created README.md with sections: Key Features, Architecture, Project Structure, Setup (prerequisites, installation, environment variables), Usage, Testing (run all tests, coverage commands, HTML report, current coverage table, test suite breakdown), Slack Channel Routing, Technology Stack, Deployment, License.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 20. Project Restructuring\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "plese move env to .env. please move all python test files to a test directory. Please move all remaining python files to the src directory. Refactor all code, documentation, ensure the program, tests still all work."\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Restructured the entire project:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Renamed env to .env.example\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Moved source files (app.py, state.py, agents.py, graph.py, tools.py, watcher.py, log_samples/) to src/\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Moved test files (test_*.py, conftest.py) to tests/\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Created src/__init__.py and tests/__init__.py\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Updated conftest.py to point sys.path at src/\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Added sys.path.insert in app.py for Streamlit Cloud compatibility\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Updated agents.py .env path logic to use project root\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Updated README.md project structure\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Updated generate_report.py and generate_slides.py paths\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Verified: All 81 tests pass, 99% coverage maintained.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "please update git as well."\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Staged all changes. Git detected renames correctly (e.g., agents.py => src/agents.py). Committed as "Restructure project to src/tests layout".\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 21. Streamlit Cloud Deployment Debugging\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "please deploy to streamlit"\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Pushed to GitHub. Provided Streamlit Cloud deployment steps with updated main file path (src/app.py).\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "I have deploying it in streamlit but it says I do not have access."\par}
{\f0\fs22 Error message: "You do not have access to this app or it does not exist. You're currently signed in as wayne@teamjohnston.com and with github.com/wjohnston99."\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Attempted to use Chrome extension (not connected) and computer-use (permissions not granted). Identified likely cause: Streamlit GitHub App not installed on the repository.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Suggested fix: Install the Streamlit GitHub App at https://github.com/apps/streamlit and grant it access to the devops-incident-suite repository.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  Confirmed they gave the app a custom URL: devops-incident-suite.streamlit.app\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  Reported visiting https://share.streamlit.io/errors/not_found\par}
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Explained this is the generic Streamlit Cloud error page, not the app. Directed user to https://share.streamlit.io/ dashboard.\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 22. OpenRouter API Key Cache Bug\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  Reported error: "Error code: 402 - This request requires more credits, or fewer max_tokens. You requested up to 16384 tokens, but can only afford 11963."\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Identified that the app was actually deployed and running. The 402 was from OpenRouter, not a deployment issue.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "I am using a new key that should have lots of credits. I have no limits defined, so not sure why I am getting the error."\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Found the root cause: \b _llm_cache bug\b0 . The module-level _llm_cache dict stored the ChatOpenAI instance created with the first API key. When the user pasted a new key in the sidebar, os.environ was updated but the cached LLM still used the old (depleted) key.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Fix:\b0  Added _llm_cache_key tracking variable. _get_llm() now compares the current OPENROUTER_API_KEY against the cached key. If the key changed, it clears the cache and creates a fresh ChatOpenAI with the new key.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Updated test_agents.py to reset _llm_cache_key in the cache-related tests. All 81 tests pass.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Committed: "Fix LLM cache ignoring new API keys + clean up requirements"\par}
{\f0\fs22 Also removed invalid 'dotenv' package from requirements.txt (duplicate of python-dotenv).\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 23. Documentation Directory\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "I have created a docs folder. Please move everything related to documentation except for the README.MD to that directory"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Moved to docs/:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  architecture_diagram.png\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  DevOps_Incident_Suite_Project_Report.pdf\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  DevOps_Incident_Suite_Presentation.pptx\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  DevOps_Incident_Suite_Presentation-updated.pptx\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  generate_report.py\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  generate_slides.py\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Updated README.md project structure to reflect docs/ directory. No path changes needed in generators since they use Path(__file__).parent and all doc files are co-located in docs/.\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 Committed: "Move documentation files to docs/ directory"\par}
\par

{\f0\fs26\b\cf2 24. Conversation Export\par}
\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs22 \b User:\b0  "copy this whole conversation from beginning to end and save it to a rtf file"\par}
\par
{\f0\fs22 \b Assistant:\b0  Created this RTF file.\par}
\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brsp20\sa200
\par
\pard\sa100
{\f0\fs32\b\cf2 FINAL PROJECT STATE\par}
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp20\sa200
\par

\pard\sa80
{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 Project Structure:\par}
{\f1\fs18 devops-incident-suite/\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab src/\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab __init__.py\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab app.py              # Streamlit UI entry point\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab state.py            # IncidentState TypedDict\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab agents.py           # 5 agent node functions + lazy LLM\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab graph.py            # LangGraph StateGraph wiring\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab tools.py            # @tool wrappers (Slack, JIRA) + routing\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab watcher.py          # Directory watcher (watchdog)\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab log_samples/        # 4 synthetic log files\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab tests/\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab __init__.py\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab conftest.py         # pytest path configuration\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab test_state.py       # 2 tests\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab test_tools.py       # 23 tests\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab test_watcher.py     # 10 tests\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab test_agents.py      # 25 tests\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab test_graph.py       # 8 tests\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab docs/\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab architecture_diagram.png\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab generate_report.py\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab generate_slides.py\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab DevOps_Incident_Suite_Project_Report.pdf\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab\tab DevOps_Incident_Suite_Presentation.pptx\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab README.md\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab requirements.txt\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab .env.example\par}
{\f1\fs18 \tab .streamlit/config.toml\par}
\par

{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 Test Results:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  81 tests passed, 0 failed\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  99% code coverage (276 statements, 2 missed)\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  All 5 modules tested: state, tools, watcher, agents, graph\par}
\par

{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 GitHub Repository:\par}
{\f0\fs22 https://github.com/wjohnston99/devops-incident-suite\par}
\par

{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 Deployment:\par}
{\f0\fs22 Streamlit Cloud: https://devops-incident-suite.streamlit.app\par}
{\f0\fs22 Main file: src/app.py\par}
\par

{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 Key Bugs Fixed:\par}
{\f0\fs22 1. Streamlit button state lost across reruns \endash  stored raw_logs in session_state\par}
{\f0\fs22 2. Results not rendering after analysis \endash  added st.rerun()\par}
{\f0\fs22 3. API key visible in UI \endash  cleared value fields, added placeholders\par}
{\f0\fs22 4. Tests failing at collection \endash  refactored to lazy _LazyLLM pattern\par}
{\f0\fs22 5. Test assertion error \endash  fixed *args list passing in _LazyLLM.invoke\par}
{\f0\fs22 6. LLM cache ignoring new API keys \endash  added key-change detection and cache invalidation\par}
{\f0\fs22 7. Invalid 'dotenv' package in requirements.txt \endash  removed (python-dotenv was already listed)\par}
\par

{\f0\fs24\b\cf2 Technology Stack:\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  LLM: OpenAI GPT-4o via OpenRouter\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Orchestration: LangGraph StateGraph\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Framework: LangChain Core\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  UI: Streamlit\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Notifications: Slack Webhook API\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Ticketing: JIRA REST API\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  File Watcher: watchdog\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Testing: pytest + pytest-cov + unittest.mock\par}
{\f0\fs22 \endash  Reports: ReportLab (PDF), python-pptx (slides)\par}
\par
}
